---
title: How Did I Start Working Remotely in a Startup
description: A story of a 17 years old boy who met someone and one year later was
  invited to join a startup as a Full Stack Developer.
date: 2017-07-12T11:30:00Z
tags:
- reflection
---

On 18th June 2015 I went to Lisbon to attend the [Landing
Festival](https://festival.landing.jobs/) â€” a tech jobs event organised by
[Landing.jobs](https://landing.jobs/). I was 15. And now you ask: what was a
15-year-old boy doing in a job fair? So, I was there as a journalist for
[Pplware](http://pplware.sapo.pt/). Though that's not the piece of information
that matters, I have to thank a lot to them because they were my ground floor.

<!--more-->

![A bit of Landing.jobs Festival 2015](cdn:/2017-07-landing-fest-thumb)

In that same day, there was someone who saw me and asked me if I was Henrique
Dias and wrote for Pplware. I got really confused. Seriously! Where the heck
would someone know me? I told him "Yes, I am." and he told me we would talk
again that evening.

And so it was! Some time afterwards he found me and I asked his name. I didn't
understand. I asked him again. Once more, I didn't understand. I pretended to
understand because I didn't want to seem stupid (I've never told him this ðŸ˜‚ but
it is not a secret anymore). We talked a bit about some ideas, about what I did,
about what he did. He's two years older, so he was 17 years old in that time. I
enjoyed the conversation.

After arriving home I thought it would have been better to seem stupid and know
his name than having really been stupid and not knowing his name. So, I went to
the Facebook Landing.festival group and searched his face among hundreds and
hundreds of members it had. And then I found him: [Malik
Piarali](https://www.linkedin.com/in/malikpiara/)! I sent him a friendship
request on Facebook and he accepted.

Since then, we exchanged words sometimes on Facebook or even by phone call.
Eventually, he started giving me hints about ideas he was getting until he told
me about [Upframe](https://upframe.co/) last year. Upframe is a
pre-acceleration programme for students and recent graduates and is incubated at
[Startup Lisboa](http://www.startuplisboa.com/).

#### The whole journey I've been having has helped me **learning some things**:

* Don't be shy
* Be positive
* Doubt about what you're told and think
* Be careful choosing your friends
* Be creative and follow your ideas
* Learn from mistakes
* Be grateful
* Develop yourself
* Work in team
* Try to see everything from different points of view

Now, I'm going to keep telling my story so you can see where and when I learned
those things.

*****

Today, Malik's 20 and I'm 17. My role at Upframe is Full Stack Developer with a
friend of mine, [FÃ¡bio Ferreira](https://www.linkedin.com/in/fabiocferreira/),
who is 16. We're the youngest people in the team and the only ones who don't
relatively live near the office. At first, it seemed a bit intimidating to work
with older people. We're about twelve people and ten of them are older than me.
Though they're not *that* old! But that's no barrier anymore. Why would it be?
Shyness, go away! This was probably one of the first things that made me realize
that one **mustn't be shy** if you want to go ahead with your ideas.

Last November was the month of [Web Summit](https://websummit.com/)! Malik
somehow managed to get us tickets and he invited us to go there. We went! It was
astonishing to be in Lisbon once more but this time accompanied by two excellent
people.

![A sneak peek inside Startup Lisboa](cdn:/2017-07-startup-lx)

I stayed three days in Lisbon. I have to thank a lot to Malik and to my parents,
because they were crucial when they let me go and bring me there. I visited the
Upframe office for the first time, went to a world-wide famous summit about
technology, met one more member of the team, [Pedro
Andrade](https://medium.com/u/534dde713f55) â€” which is the CMO at [Craft
Wallet](https://craft-wallet.com/). They build really cool wallets and no, I
wasn't asked to advertise them. I just use one and think it's worth to mention
them! Unfortunately, we couldn't meet [Henrique
Fialho](https://medium.com/u/1e66c112f4ce), who's the co-founder and COO of
Upframe, because he was a bit sick.

That's not all: we went to [Microsoft](https://www.microsoft.com/pt-pt/), we
visited [Uniplaces](https://www.uniplaces.com/), I traveled by subway and Uber
for the first time, I went to [Starbucks](http://www.starbucks.pt/) for the
first time and so much more. We all had a lot of fun, but we learned a lot too.
It was astonishing for me, incredibly awesome. I'm really grateful for those
days â€” and that was the second thing I learned: **be grateful** for what you've.

With all of this and with all of the people I met, I learned that we should
**try hard and follow our dreams**. Nothing can be done without **work**. Learn
from your mistakes and don't repeat them. Also, be careful when choosing your
friends. Your friendships matter as much as your own sanity.

!['Fresh ideas here' at Startup Lisboa](cdn:/2017-07-fresh-ideas)

Now, I think it's a really good time to tell you a bit of background information
about me: I was born and have been living my 17 years in a really small hamlet.
Imagine a land with more or less the double of the area of Lisbon city but with
about 800 inhabitants â€” 190 square kilometers with 800 people. A lot, hum? Those
inhabitants aren't even centralized. It doesn't seem really comfortable, doesn't
it? But that's where I live.

![Santana da Serra](cdn:/2017-07-santana-da-serra?class=full)

I live in Santana da Serra. The population is really old. Imagine a place where
there are only three people with 17 years old. On the other hand, Lisbon is the
capital, with a **lot** â€” I put a **lot** of emphasis on that word â€” more
people. As you may imagine, it will be a lot different when I move into Lisbon.
Probably even a bit scary at first, or not. It will be *huge*. We'll see.

> **Be positive. Work for what you want to reach. Aim for more.**

As I've already mentioned, I don't live near Lisbon, neither do FÃ¡bio. So,
sometimes it can be a bit challenging for us to keep up with everything that's
going on. Since we are developers and have our roles really well defined â€” we
are mainly in charge of the website and other digital stuff â€” , we wouldn't
necessarily need to know everything that's happening and have been decided.

We could just be told what we needed to do, and we would do it. But doing that
would be a *bit* boring: only building the website without knowing anything else
would be like trying to cook a meal with your eyes closed. We could just keep
our eyes on [Asana](https://asana.com/) or [Slack](https://slack.com/) and wait
for tasks to appear, or try to be evolved the most we can to give our feedback
and help as it's possible.

It's essential for everyone that's part of a team to know at least the major
decisions about the startup and the route it is taking. Right now, we can't go
to meetings, we can't work *in loco* and we don't even know most of the team in
person! In the beginning, I thought that could be a bit frightening, but it
isn't anymore. That's no barrier: everything is working well. Communicating with
each other is essential to make everything work flawlessly.

> "Was it worth doing? Everything's worth doing<br> If the soul of the doer isn't
> small." â€” Fernando Pessoa

Giving you an example of what I'm talking about: every meeting gets written down
on [Dropbox Paper](https://www.dropbox.com/paper) (one of ours main tools).
Then, in the most of the times, we schedule a call so the ones who couldn't be
present in the meeting keep up with what's happening around. We're always asked
our feedback about what we're told, about what was decided and that contributes
a lot, in my opinion, for a healthy team.

> Learn how to work, hear different opinions, understand, give your feedback.

The whole team, even the ones who entered last, have learned a lot since then. I
think that since everyone is young, we're mostly learning by doing, which can be
great, and dangerous at the same time. I can't talk for the rest of the team,
but for me it has been incredible to work with more people, even if only
remotely.

![Left to the right: Malik, FÃ¡bio and I at Web Summit 2016](cdn:/2017-07-web-summit-2016)

It's great because you can learn how other people work, how other people think,
how to work with more people, how to get organised, how to deal with diverse
kinds of issues, earn experience and so on. Since a lot can change really fast,
we need to be able to deal with fast changes: adapt ourselves. I think this is a
way that allows everyone to improve themselves. It's always worth the risk,
right?

This whole experience has improved me a lot, in many ways: from the fact that
I'm more grateful and happier, to the point where I can be a less shy and think
more about what I'm told.

Working is essential, learning from mistakes too. If you ever have the
opportunity to work for a Startup whose idea attracts you, do it! Don't look
back. It's a whole different way of working.

> I want to thank to everyone who's been involved, to everyone who helped me
> growing, and specially to Malik for giving us this opportunity.

I'm going to Lisbon next academic year â€” hopefully! â€” and I'm looking forward to
see the team a lot more and learn even more!
