---
title: Differences Between C, C++ and C#
date: 2016-11-01T00:00:00Z
---

There is one thing in common with the languages C, C++ and
C#: their first letter. The fact of their name be similar makes some people
think that these languages are almost the same thing. But… is it true? Are there
any more similarities between these languages beyond their name?

<!--more-->

## Language C

The programming language C was created at Bell Labs by a computer scientist
whose name is Dennis Ritchie. This was back in 1969. The language C was based on
another language called B. C can be considered the most popular programming
language ever made. On of the biggest reasons for that is that programs written
in C can run on a lot of operating systems (from Macs to Windows, for example).

![Bell Laboratories in Murray Hill, New Jersey](cdn:/2016-11-bell-labs "Bell Laboratories in Murray Hill, New Jersey")

Nowadays, C is a language mainly used to programs that need to run quickly and
smoothly without using much memory. C is a low level language, which means that
it has small abstraction layer compared to other language such as Java or C#; it
also means that C can have a more direct contact with the hardware.

Making a little characterization of this language: C is a general-purpose and
imperative programming language. It supports structured programming, lexical
variable and recursion.

## Language C++

Back in 1979, C++ was developed by a Danish programmer named Bjarne Stroustrup.
His main goal was to develop a class system for C. That's why C++ was initially
called "C with Classes"; it was only renamed in 1983. C++ added a lot of new
features to C, designed to make programming more efficient and give the
developer more options on how they would like to code.

![Bjarne Stroustrup, the creator of C++](cdn:/2016-11-bjarne-social "Bjarne Stroustrup, the creator of C++")

The main difference between C and C++ is the fact that C++ supports classes (and
objects) and has a huge library of useful functions called STD (Standard
Template Library).

C++ is also a general-purpose language; it's imperative, object-oriented and has
generic programming features and also provides facilities for low-level memory
manipulation.

## Language C#

In 2001, Microsoft published a new language: C#, intended to be a new
object-oriented language. This language is not based on C, but a C-like
language. Originally, the code-name of this language was "Cool", but Microsoft
ended up calling it C#; apparently, Microsoft was on a roll with adding # to
letters (A#, F#…).

C# can be used for pretty much anything. But, as it was produced by Microsoft,
it ended up powering a lot of Windows programs too. So, C# is mainly used with
Windows in mind. But it is not an obligation.

Characterization: C# is a multi-paradigm programming language; it follows the
imperative, declarative, functional and object-oriented paradigms. It's also
strongly typed and component-oriented programming language.
