---
title: "About This Website"
description: Why does this website exist? How does it work?
date: 2021-02-19T09:45:13Z
lastmod: 2023-06-14T20:24:07.73702137+02:00
noSendInteractions: true
---

I started this website in 2014, when I was 14. At the time, all the content was in Portuguese, and I was running multiple blogs. After a while, I decided to start writing in English hoping it would improve my English skills, which I can argue that worked. Nowadays, all other blogs I had are merged under the current domain.

This website has seen quite a few redesigns. I [wrote](/2022/03/25/my-website-before-indieweb) about all the main designs I had before this website was part of the IndieWeb community, and [after](/2022/06/18/my-website-after-indieweb). I am still not 100% settled on the current design. However, major changes are slowing down, which means I might be coming to a good point where I am mostly satisfied.

<!--more-->

<style>
:root {
  --accent: #1b5b8b;
}

@media screen and (min-width: 53.001rem) {
  body {
    background-color: #269;
    background-image:
      linear-gradient(rgba(255,255,255,.5) 2px, transparent 2px),
      linear-gradient(90deg, rgba(255,255,255,.5) 2px, transparent 2px),
      linear-gradient(rgba(255,255,255,.28) 1px, transparent 1px),
      linear-gradient(90deg, rgba(255,255,255,.28) 1px, transparent 1px);
    background-size: 100px 100px, 100px 100px, 20px 20px, 20px 20px;
    background-position: -2px -2px, -2px -2px, -1px -1px, -1px -1px;
  }

  #navbar {
    border-radius: 0;
  }
}
</style>

## ⚙️ How Does This Website Work? {#how}

With the exception from a few pages, this website is statically-generated by [Hugo][hugo], my favorite website generator. This website has been generated by Hugo [since 2015][hello-hugo], except during a [short][bye-hugo] [period][hello-again] between November 2021 and April 2023. During this period, I was running my own custom backend, called Eagle.

[Eagle] is still backing this website for certain things, such as generating the search results, processing incoming and outgoing Webmentions, and authentication. Other than that, the website is purely statically-generated by Hugo.

This website currently relies on a bunch of services, such as [Hetzner](https://www.hetzner.com/), [Cloudflare](https://www.cloudflare.com/) and [Bunny](https://bunny.net/). I would like to move out of Cloudflare in the future due to their latest historic with down time. However, I haven't spent some time doing that yet. Other software I use can be found in my [uses] page.

[hugo]: https://gohugo.io/
[hello-hugo]: /2015/08/12/farewell-wordpress-hello-hugo/
[bye-hugo]: /2021/11/19/farewell-hugo-hello-eagle/
[hello-again]: /2023/06/13/farewell-eagle-kinda-hello-hugo/
[eagle]: https://github.com/hacdias/eagle
[uses]: /uses/

## ⚖️ Disclaimers {#disclaimer}

- **Opinions and facts change over time.** Something I wrong in the past might be outdated, wrong or I might not agree with it anymore. If you're unsure about something I wrote, please [contact me](/contact/).

- **No guest posts.** This is a personal website, and I will not publish third party guest posts. I will not reply to your e-mail. Clearly none of the e-mail senders I've received has read this.

- **No ads or trackers.** This website does not contain any kinds of advertisements or trackers. It only sets a small cookie for logging-in, but that functionality is exclusive for me. Therefore, it doesn't matter to you.

<div class='terms bold'>

- [🧁 About](/about)
- [📖 Guestbook](/guestbook)

</div>
